.\"
.\" FreeBSD pkg - a next generation package for the installation and maintenance
.\" of non-core utilities.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\"
.\"
.\"     @(#)pkg.8
.\"
.Dd May 25, 2014
.Dt PKG-AUTOREMOVE 8
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm "pkg autoremove"
.Nd removes orphan packages
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm
.Op Fl nqy
.Pp
.Nm
.Op Cm --{dry-run,quiet,yes}
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Nm
is used for removing orphan packages, which were installed
during dependency resolution and are no longer needed.
.Sh OPTIONS
The following options are supported by
.Nm :
.Bl -tag -width dry-run
.It Fl n , Cm --dry-run
Dry-run mode.
The list of changes to packages is always printed, but
no changes are actually made.
.It Fl q , Cm --quiet
Force quiet output.
.It Fl y , Cm --yes
Assume yes when asked for confirmation before package autoremoval.
.El
.Sh ENVIRONMENT
The following environment variables affect the execution of
.Nm .
See
.Xr ravensw.conf 5
for further description.
.Bl -tag -width ".Ev NO_DESCRIPTIONS"
.It Ev DEFAULT_ALWAYS_YES
.It Ev ASSUME_ALWAYS_YES
.It Ev HANDLE_RC_SCRIPTS
.It Ev RAVENSW_DBDIR
.El
.Sh FILES
See
.Xr ravensw.conf 5 .
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr ravensw-repository 5 ,
.Xr ravensw.conf 5 ,
.Xr ravensw 8 ,
.Xr ravensw-add 8 ,
.Xr ravensw-alias 8 ,
.Xr ravensw-annotate 8 ,
.Xr ravensw-audit 8 ,
.Xr ravensw-backup 8 ,
.Xr ravensw-check 8 ,
.Xr ravensw-clean 8 ,
.Xr ravensw-config 8 ,
.Xr ravensw-create 8 ,
.Xr ravensw-delete 8 ,
.Xr ravensw-fetch 8 ,
.Xr ravensw-info 8 ,
.Xr ravensw-install 8 ,
.Xr ravensw-lock 8 ,
.Xr ravensw-query 8 ,
.Xr ravensw-register 8 ,
.Xr ravensw-repo 8 ,
.Xr ravensw-rquery 8 ,
.Xr ravensw-search 8 ,
.Xr ravensw-set 8 ,
.Xr ravensw-shell 8 ,
.Xr ravensw-shlib 8 ,
.Xr ravensw-ssh 8 ,
.Xr pkg-stats 8 ,
.Xr pkg-update 8 ,
.Xr pkg-updating 8 ,
.Xr pkg-upgrade 8 ,
.Xr pkg-version 8 ,
.Xr pkg-which 8
