.\"
.\" FreeBSD pkg - a next generation package for the installation and maintenance
.\" of non-core utilities.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\"
.\"
.\"     @(#)pkg.8
.\"
.Dd October 30, 2014
.Dt RAVENSW-STATS 8
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm "ravensw stats"
.Nd display package database statistics
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm
.Op Fl qlrb
.Pp
.Nm
.Op Cm --{quiet,local,remote,bytes}
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Nm
is used to display different statistics about the package databases.
.Sh OPTIONS
The following options are supported by
.Nm :
.Bl -tag -width quiet
.It Fl q , Cm --quiet
Quiet mode.
Show less output.
.It Fl l , Cm --local
Display stats only for the local package database.
.It Fl r , Cm --remote
Display stats only for the remote package database(s).
.It Fl b , Cm --bytes
Display disk space usage in bytes only.
.El
.Sh ENVIRONMENT
The following environment variables affect the execution of
.Nm .
See
.Xr ravensw.conf 5
for further description.
.Sh FILES
See
.Xr ravensw.conf 5 .
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr ravensw-repository 5 ,
.Xr ravensw.conf 5 ,
.Xr ravensw 8 ,
.Xr ravensw-add 8 ,
.Xr ravensw-alias 8 ,
.Xr ravensw-annotate 8 ,
.Xr ravensw-autoremove 8 ,
.Xr ravensw-backup 8 ,
.Xr ravensw-check 8 ,
.Xr ravensw-clean 8 ,
.Xr ravensw-config 8 ,
.Xr ravensw-create 8 ,
.Xr ravensw-delete 8 ,
.Xr ravensw-fetch 8 ,
.Xr ravensw-info 8 ,
.Xr ravensw-install 8 ,
.Xr ravensw-lock 8 ,
.Xr ravensw-query 8 ,
.Xr ravensw-repo 8 ,
.Xr ravensw-rquery 8 ,
.Xr ravensw-search 8 ,
.Xr ravensw-set 8 ,
.Xr ravensw-shell 8 ,
.Xr ravensw-shlib 8 ,
.Xr ravensw-ssh 8 ,
.Xr ravensw-update 8 ,
.Xr ravensw-upgrade 8 ,
.Xr ravensw-version 8 ,
.Xr ravensw-which 8
