.\"
.\" FreeBSD pkg - a next generation package for the installation and maintenance
.\" of non-core utilities.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\"
.\"
.\"     @(#)pkg.8
.\"
.Dd April 9, 2015
.Dt RAVENSW-SHLIB 8
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm "ravensw shlib"
.Nd display which installed package provides a specfic shared library,
and the installed packages which require it
.Pp
.Ar library
is the filename of the library without any leading path, but
including the ABI version number.
Only exact matches are handled.
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm
.Op Fl q
.Op Fl PR
.Ar library
.Pp
.Nm
.Op Cm --quiet
.Op Cm --{provides,requires}
.Ar library
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Nm
is used for displaying the packages that provide
.Ar library
or that require
.Ar library
by containing binaries that link to it.
.Sh OPTIONS
The following mutually exclusive options are supported by
.Nm :
.Bl -tag -width provides
.It Fl P , Cm --provides
Show only the installed packages which provide the named
.Ar library .
.It Fl R , Cm --requires
Show only the installed packages which require
.Ar library.
.It Fl q , Cm --quiet
Force quiet output.
.El
.Sh ENVIRONMENT
The following environment variables affect the execution of
.Nm .
See
.Xr ravensw.conf 5
for further description.
.Bl -tag -width ".Ev NO_DESCRIPTIONS"
.It RAVENSW_DBDIR
.El
.Sh FILES
See
.Xr ravensw.conf 5 .
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr ravensw-repository 5 ,
.Xr ravensw.conf 5 ,
.Xr ravensw 8 ,
.Xr ravensw-add 8 ,
.Xr ravensw-alias 8 ,
.Xr ravensw-annotate 8 ,
.Xr ravensw-audit 8 ,
.Xr ravensw-autoremove 8 ,
.Xr ravensw-backup 8 ,
.Xr ravensw-check 8 ,
.Xr ravensw-clean 8 ,
.Xr ravensw-config 8 ,
.Xr ravensw-create 8 ,
.Xr ravensw-delete 8 ,
.Xr ravensw-fetch 8 ,
.Xr ravensw-info 8 ,
.Xr ravensw-install 8 ,
.Xr ravensw-lock 8 ,
.Xr ravensw-query 8 ,
.Xr ravensw-register 8 ,
.Xr ravensw-repo 8 ,
.Xr ravensw-rquery 8 ,
.Xr ravensw-search 8 ,
.Xr ravensw-set 8 ,
.Xr ravensw-shell 8 ,
.Xr ravensw-ssh 8 ,
.Xr ravensw-stats 8 ,
.Xr ravensw-update 8 ,
.Xr ravensw-updating 8 ,
.Xr ravensw-upgrade 8 ,
.Xr ravensw-version 8 ,
.Xr ravensw-which 8
