.\"
.\" FreeBSD pkg - a next generation package for the installation and maintenance
.\" of non-core utilities.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\"
.\"
.\"     @(#)pkg.8
.\"
.Dd October 30, 2014
.Dt RAVENSW-SSH 8
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm "pkg ssh"
.Nd package server
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Nm
provides a minimal package server.
It is most commonly used with the SSH transport protocol.
.Pp
This command is not meant to be used by the user.
.Xr ravensw 8
will start the server automatically through
.Xr ssh 1
when the ssh:// scheme is specified in the repository configuration.
.Sh OPTIONS
.Nm
supports no options.
.Sh ENVIRONMENT
The following environment variables affect the execution of
.Nm .
See
.Xr ravensw.conf 5
for further description.
.Bl -tag -width ".Ev NO_DESCRIPTIONS"
.It Ev SSH_RESTRICT_DIR
.El
.Sh FILES
See
.Xr ravensw.conf 5 .
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr ravensw-repository 5 ,
.Xr ravensw.conf 5 ,
.Xr ravensw 8 ,
.Xr ravensw-add 8 ,
.Xr ravensw-alias 8 ,
.Xr ravensw-annotate 8 ,
.Xr ravensw-audit 8 ,
.Xr ravensw-autoremove 8 ,
.Xr ravensw-backup 8 ,
.Xr ravensw-check 8 ,
.Xr ravensw-clean 8 ,
.Xr ravensw-config 8 ,
.Xr ravensw-create 8 ,
.Xr ravensw-delete 8 ,
.Xr ravensw-fetch 8 ,
.Xr ravensw-info 8 ,
.Xr ravensw-install 8 ,
.Xr ravensw-lock 8 ,
.Xr ravensw-query 8 ,
.Xr ravensw-register 8 ,
.Xr ravensw-repo 8 ,
.Xr ravensw-rquery 8 ,
.Xr ravensw-search 8 ,
.Xr ravensw-set 8 ,
.Xr ravensw-shell 8 ,
.Xr ravensw-shlib 8 ,
.Xr ravensw-stats 8 ,
.Xr ravensw-update 8 ,
.Xr ravensw-updating 8 ,
.Xr ravensw-upgrade 8 ,
.Xr ravensw-version 8 ,
.Xr ravensw-which 8
