.\"
.\" FreeBSD pkg - a next generation package for the installation and maintenance
.\" of non-core utilities.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\"
.\"
.\"     @(#)pkg.8
.\"
.Dd August 23, 2019
.Dt RAVENSW 8
.Os
.\" ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
.Sh NAME
.Nm ravensw
.Nd manipulate packages
.\" ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm
.Op Fl v
.Op Fl d
.Op Fl l
.Op Fl N
.Op Fl j Ao jail name or id Ac | Fl c Ao chroot path Ac | Fl r Ao root directory Ac
.Op Fl C Ao configuration file Ac
.Op F1 o Ao option=value Ac
.Op Fl R Ao repository configuration directory Ac
.Op Fl 4 | Fl 6
.Ao command Ac Ao Ar flags Ac
.Pp
.Nm
.Op Cm --version
.Op Cm --debug
.Op Cm --list
.Op Fl N
.Op Cm --jail Ao jail name or id Ac | Cm --chroot Ao chroot path Ac | Cm --rootdir Ao root directory Ac
.Op Cm --config Ao configuration file Ac
.Op Cm --option Ao option=value Ac
.Op Cm --repo-conf-dir Ao repository configuration directory Ac
.Op Fl 4 | Fl 6
.Ao command Ac Ao Ar flags Ac
.\" ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Nm ravensw
provides an interface for manipulating packages: registering,
adding, removing and upgrading packages.
See
.Xr ravensw.conf 5
for details.
.\" ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
.Sh OPTIONS
The following options are supported by
.Nm :
.Bl -tag -width indent
.It Fl v , Cm --version
Display the current version of
.Nm .
.It Fl d , Cm --debug
Show debug information.
.It Fl l , Cm --list
List all the available command names, and exit without performing any
other action.
The
.Fl v
option takes precedence over
.Fl l
but
.Fl l
will override any other command line arguments.
.It Fl o Ao option=value Ac , Cm --option Ao option=value Ac
Set configuration option for
.Nm
from the command line.
Options that are set from the environment are redefined.
It is permitted to specify this option multiple times.
.It Fl N
Activation status check mode.
.Nm will run sanity tests.  It first checks for the existence
of the SQLite database as specified by the configuration.  It
then attempts to run a simple read-only query to determine the
number of packages installed.  If the query is successful, and
at least one package is installed,
.Nm
will exit normally after printing out the number of installed
packages, otherwise an error message will be printed.
The exit status should be a reliable indication of whether a system
is configured to use
.Nm
as its package management system or not.
.Pp
Example usage:
.Bd -literal -offset indent
  if ravensw -N >/dev/null 2>&1; then
    # ravensw functional
  else
    # ravensw missing or non-functional
  fi
.Ed
.It Fl j Ao jail name or id Ac , Cm --jail Ao jail name or id Ac
.Nm
will execute in the given
.Ao jail name or id Ac ,
where
.Em name
matches
.Dq Cm jls Ar name
and
.Em id
matches
.Dq Cm jls Ar jid .
This option is only supported on
.Fx currently .
See
.Xr jail 8
and
.Xr jls 8 .
.It Fl c Ao chroot path Ac , Cm --chroot Ao chroot path Ac
.Nm
will chroot in the
.Ao chroot path Ac
environment.
.It Fl r Ao root directory Ac , Cm --rootdir Ao root directory Ac
.Nm
will install all packages within the specified
.Ao root directory Ac .
.It Fl C Ao configuration file Ac , Cm --config Ao configuration file Ac
.Nm
will use the specified file as a configuration file.
.It Fl R Ao repo conf dir Ac , Cm --repo-conf-dir Ao repo conf dir Ac
.Nm
will search the directory for per-repository configuration files.
This overrides any value of
.Ev REPOS_DIR
specified in the main configuration file.
.It Fl 4
.Nm
will use IPv4 for fetching repository and packages.
.It Fl 6
.Nm
will use IPv6 for fetching repository and packages.
.El
.\" ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
.Sh COMMANDS
The following commands (or their unambiguous abbreviations) are supported by
.Nm :
.Bl -tag -width indent
.It Ic help Ar command
Display usage information of the specified command.
.It Ic add
Install a package from either a local source or a remote one.
.Pp
When installing from remote source you need to specify the
protocol to use when fetching the package.
.Pp
Currently supported protocols are FTP, HTTP and HTTPS.
.It Ic annotate
Add, modify or delete tag-value style annotations on packages.
.It Ic alias
List the command line aliases.
.It Ic autoremove
Delete packages which were automatically installed as dependencies and are not required any more.
.It Ic backup
Dump the local package database to a file specified on the command-line.
.It Ic check
Sanity checks installed packages.
.It Ic clean
Clean the local cache of fetched remote packages.
.It Ic create
Create a package.
.It Ic delete
Delete a package from the database and the system.
.It Ic fetch
Fetch packages from a remote repository.
.It Ic info
Display information about installed packages.
.It Ic install
Install a package from a remote package repository.
If a package is found in more than one remote repository,
then installation happens from the first one.
Downloading a package is tried from each package repository in turn,
until the package is successfully fetched.
.It Ic lock
Prevent modification or deletion of a package.
.It Ic query
Query information about installed packages.
.It Ic repo
Create a local package repository for remote usage.
.It Ic rquery
Query information for remote repositories.
.It Ic search
Search for the given pattern in the remote package
repositories.
.It Ic set
Modify information in the installed database.
.It Ic shell
Open a SQLite shell to the local or remote database.
Extreme care should be taken when using this command.
.It Ic shlib
Displays which packages link to a specific shared library.
.It Ic stats
Display package database statistics.
.It Ic unlock
Unlocks packages, allowing them to be modified or deleted.
.It Ic update
Update the available remote repositories as listed in
.Xr ravensw.conf 5 .
.It Ic upgrade
Upgrade a package to a newer version.
.It Ic version
Summarize installed versions of packages.
.It Ic which
Query the database for package(s) that installed a specific
file.
.El
.\" ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
.Sh ENVIRONMENT
All configuration options from
.Xr ravensw.conf 5
can be passed as environment variables.
.Pp
Extra environment variables are:
.Bl -tag -width "INSTALL_AS_USER"
.It INSTALL_AS_USER
Allow all manipulation to be done as a regular user instead of checking for
root credentials when appropriate.
.br
It is expected that the user will ensure that every file and directory
manipulated by
.Nm
are readable
.Pq or writable where appropriate
by the user.
.El
.\" ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
.Sh FILES
See
.Xr ravensw.conf 5 .
.\" ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
.Sh EXAMPLES
Search for a package:
.Dl $ ravensw search joe
.Pp
Install a package:
.Dl Installing must specify a unique origin or version otherwise it will try installing all matches.
.Pp
.Dl % ravensw install joe-single-standard
.Pp
List installed packages:
.Dl $ ravensw info
.Pp
Upgrade from remote repository:
.Dl % ravensw upgrade
.Pp
List non-automatic packages:
.Dl $ ravensw query -e '%a = 0' %o
.Pp
List automatic packages:
.Dl $ ravensw query -e '%a = 1' %o
.Pp
Delete an installed package:
.Dl % ravensw delete "joe*"
.Pp
Remove unneeded dependencies:
.Dl % ravensw autoremove
.Pp
Change a package from automatic to non-automatic, which will prevent
.Ic autoremove
from removing it:
.Dl % ravensw set -A 0 joe-single-standard
.Pp
Change a package from non-automatic to automatic, which will make
.Ic autoremove
allow it be removed once nothing depends on it:
.Dl % ravensw set -A 1 joe-single-standard
.Pp
Create package file from an installed package:
.Dl % ravensw create -o /var/ravenports/primary/packages/All joe-single-standard
.Pp
Determine which package installed a file:
.Dl $ ravensw which /raven/bin/joe
.Pp
Check installed packages for checksum mismatches:
.Dl # ravensw check -s -a
.Pp
Check for missing dependencies:
.Dl # ravensw check -d -a
.\" ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr ravensw-repository 5 ,
.Xr ravensw.conf 5 ,
.Xr ravensw-add 8 ,
.Xr ravensw-alias 8 ,
.Xr ravensw-annotate 8 ,
.Xr ravensw-autoremove 8 ,
.Xr ravensw-backup 8 ,
.Xr ravensw-check 8 ,
.Xr ravensw-clean 8 ,
.Xr ravensw-config 8 ,
.Xr ravensw-create 8 ,
.Xr ravensw-delete 8 ,
.Xr ravensw-fetch 8 ,
.Xr ravensw-info 8 ,
.Xr ravensw-install 8 ,
.Xr ravensw-lock 8 ,
.Xr ravensw-query 8 ,
.Xr ravensw-repo 8 ,
.Xr ravensw-rquery 8 ,
.Xr ravensw-search 8 ,
.Xr ravensw-set 8 ,
.Xr ravensw-shell 8 ,
.Xr ravensw-shlib 8 ,
.Xr ravensw-ssh 8 ,
.Xr ravensw-stats 8 ,
.Xr ravensw-update 8 ,
.Xr ravensw-upgrade 8 ,
.Xr ravensw-version 8 ,
.Xr ravensw-which 8
.El
.\" ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
.Sh HISTORY
The pkg command first appeared in
.Fx 9.1 .
The
.Nm
program reimplemented most of pkg in Ada, replacing
.Fx ports-specific code and adapting it for Ravenports.
.\" ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
.Sh AUTHORS AND CONTRIBUTORS
.An John Marino Aq draco@marino.st
.\" ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
.Sh BUGS
See the issue tracker at
.Em https://github.com/jrmarino/ravensw/issues
